# Let-sMeet-
Let'sMeet!

CS50 Final Project
Authors: Alejandro Gracia-Zhang, Gabriel Oliaro, Kit McArthur

Our iOS App was developed in Xcode, written in Swift.  Although none of us had ever learned Swift or had experience with making apps, we wanted to learn.  This project has two main components, the user interface frontend and the server backend.  For the server, we decided to use Firebase, a Backend-as-a-Server that is an app-development platform on Google Cloud Platform.  Firebase allowed us to not have to worry about managing servers and writing APIs.  Yet, despite the “relatively” streamlined procedures that it provided, there was still a lot to learn and implement.  Most of this project has been about teaching ourselves new languages, resources and databases, and then applying what we could learn in this very limited timeframe to building a functioning app.

The Xcode portion of this project offers a visual overview of how each element is interconnected. For example, in the “storyboard file,” we see the organization of each screen within the app, and how different buttons branch off into each screen. Behind each screen is Swift code, which specify behaviors of elements within the screens.

The very first part of the app are the Login and Register pages.  Firebase has a built-in email/password authentication system that we used.  This system keeps tracks of who the users are and even allows you to store an imageURL (although for this we also had to use the Firebase Database to actually be able to upload the image to allow users to store an image from their phones’ photo libraries).

The next part, the Group Table View, displays the list of groups the user is in.  This page implements the table view to display the groups in a list.  These groups are retrieved from the Firebase Database where there is a specific dictionary “users,” the sole purpose of which is to keep a list of user keys, and under each user key have a list of the groups that user is in.  Through Getting the user’s unique key from FirebaseAuth, and with a reference to the specific location where the “users” dictionary is, the GroupTableViewController can retrieve the unique keys of the groups the user is in. However, these are only the names of the groups.  (Note that this list of “users” is not used for login or authentication; those functions are done directly through FirebaseAuth). After getting the names, we need to get the full info from the “groups” node in database in this dictionary.  Within each group is stored a unique key along with all of the other requisite variables such as name, photo, description, list of members, and list of activities.

When the specific group on the list is tapped, the Group View Controller is opened.  This displays not just the information of the group but also what activities are within that group.  These activities are stored in the list of activities mentioned previously.  On the top right of the page, there this a button that says, “View/Edit Members.” This brings you to another page with a list of all of the members in the group.  There are also buttons to “add” and “remove” members.  To add a user, the email of that user is entered and then a query into the “users” dictionary in Firebase is made to get the UID of the user that has that email.  This is what the button “Lookup and Add” first does. After this, the user is added to the list of members on the group.  This isn’t it though. The addmember function must also add the key of the group to the list of groups under the “users” dictionary.  This way, next time the GroupViewController is loaded, the app will know to automatically also get the group that the user was just added to.  There is also a remove members button; however, only the owner of the group (the one who first created it) can remove members.

One problem we routinely encountered was that we had difficulty incorporating Firebase with Xcode.  For us, they were two entirely new languages and there wasn’t really anyone we could easily ask questions to about this.  We went through a few online tutorials and video tutorials; however, there were a few errors and bugs in the last couple of days that were related to using Firebase.  Although we were able to successfully implement the Authentication and Login of users through Firebase, we were not able to get the groups from Firebase to show as a list on the app on the GroupTableViewController.

In these past few weeks, we were able to successfully implement the user interface for the app, and connect a few of its aspects to a realtime database.  However, because of the tight time limits and also lack of people to talk to about Firebase and iOS app development, we ended up learning this completely on our own and therefore were not able to add and implement all of the features we had originally wanted.  Looking back, we were quite unprepared for this project, having no experience in the languages we worked in or in Firebase, and also having the goal of implementing an app with complex database dictionaries and various features.  Nonetheless, this journey has been very rewarding and with more time, we are confident that we would have a good shot at improving the functionality our Let’s Meet app. After all, one of the main takeaways from this has also been that while on paper ideas and features may seem quite simple, implementing these ideas into code takes much much more time, knowledge, and experience than what we might initially think.
